README.md, before:

# docker-python-web

A base [Docker image](https://www.docker.com/) for Cal-ITP Python web applications.

Read the full documentation online: <https://docs.calitp.org/docker-python-web>

## Features

- Base image `python:3.10`
- Image configured with non-`root` user (`calitp` by default)
- `nginx` configured as a reverse proxy listening on container port `8000`
- `gunicorn` configured as a WSGI application server, communicates with `nginx` over Unix socket
- `gunicorn` default configuration location in `$GUNICORN_CONF`
- `WORKDIR` set to `/home/$USER/app`; `gunicorn` configuration in `/home/$USER/run`

## Non-Features

- Bring Your Own Web Framework
  - see [`benefits`](https://github.com/cal-itp/benefits) for a `Django` example
  - see [`eligibility-server`](https://github.com/cal-itp/eligibility-server) for a `Flask` example
- Bring Your Own `CMD`: drop in to `bash` with the default `ENTRYPOINT`.

## Usage

Reference one of the `image:tag` from GitHub Container Registry in a `Dockerfile`. E.g. for the `main` branch:

```dockerfile
FROM ghcr.io/cal-itp/docker-python-web:main

COPY my_app my_app

CMD "nginx && python -m gunicorn -c $GUNICORN_CONF my_app.wsgi"
```

Or from the command line:

```shell
docker pull ghcr.io/cal-itp/docker-python-web:main
```

## License

[Apache 2.0](LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs: add notes on opening the devcontainer

README.md, after:

# docker-python-web

A base [Docker image](https://www.docker.com/) for Cal-ITP Python web applications.

Read the full documentation online: <https://docs.calitp.org/docker-python-web>

## Features

- Base image `python:3.10`
- Image configured with non-`root` user (`calitp` by default)
- `nginx` configured as a reverse proxy listening on container port `8000`
- `gunicorn` configured as a WSGI application server, communicates with `nginx` over Unix socket
- `gunicorn` default configuration location in `$GUNICORN_CONF`
- `WORKDIR` set to `/home/$USER/app`; `gunicorn` configuration in `/home/$USER/run`

## Non-Features

- Bring Your Own Web Framework
  - see [`benefits`](https://github.com/cal-itp/benefits) for a `Django` example
  - see [`eligibility-server`](https://github.com/cal-itp/eligibility-server) for a `Flask` example
- Bring Your Own `CMD`: drop in to `bash` with the default `ENTRYPOINT`.

## Usage

Reference one of the `image:tag` from GitHub Container Registry in a `Dockerfile`. E.g. for the `main` branch:

```dockerfile
FROM ghcr.io/cal-itp/docker-python-web:main

COPY my_app my_app

CMD "nginx && python -m gunicorn -c $GUNICORN_CONF my_app.wsgi"
```

Or from the command line:

```shell
docker pull ghcr.io/cal-itp/docker-python-web:main
```

## Development

Development for this repo is done within a Visual Studio Code [devcontainer](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers).

!!! warning

    You must build the base Docker image `cal-itp/docker-python-web:app` before running the devcontainer. In a terminal, run:
    ```
    docker compose build app
    ```

Then, with the [Remote - Containers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) extension enabled, open the folder containing this repository inside Visual Studio Code.

## License

[Apache 2.0](LICENSE)
